doc: add guide for timestamping (#407)
notaryproject/notaryproject.dev: content/en/docs/user-guides/how-to/timestamps.md

---

> title: "Timestamps"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
title: "Timestamping"

```

> description: "How to sign and verify artifacts in OCI-compliant registries using trusted timestamps"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
description: "How to sign and verify artifacts in OCI-compliant registries with timestamping"

```

type: docs
weight: 9
---

> In the X.509 Public Key Infrastructure (PKI) system, digital signatures must be generated within the certificate's validity period, as expired certificates compromise the signature's trustworthiness. The [RFC 3161](https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc3161) standard defines the internet X.509 PKI Time-Stamp Protocol (TSP), where a trusted timestamp is issued by a trusted third party acting as a Time Stamping Authority (TSA). These trusted timestamps extend the trust of signatures created within certificate validity, enabling successful signature verification even after certificates have expired. Since Notation v1.2.0 release, Notation supports for RFC 3161 compliant timestamps.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the X.509 Public Key Infrastructure (PKI) system, digital signatures must be generated within the certificate's validity period, as expired certificates compromise the signature's trustworthiness. The [RFC 3161](https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc3161) standard defines the internet X.509 PKI Time-Stamp Protocol (TSP), where a timestamp is issued by a trusted third party acting as a Time Stamping Authority (TSA). These trusted timestamps extend the trust of signatures created within certificates validity, enabling successful signature verification even after certificates have expired. Since Notation v1.2.0 release, Notation supports RFC 3161 compliant timestamping.

```

> This guide describes how to sign and verify artifacts in OCI ([Open Container Initiative](https://github.com/opencontainers)) compliant registries using trusted timestamps. Artifacts in OCI-compliant registries can be container images or other artifacts such as Software Bill of Materials (SBOM).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This guide describes how to sign and verify artifacts in OCI ([Open Container Initiative](https://github.com/opencontainers)) compliant registries with timestamping. Artifacts in OCI-compliant registries can be container images or other artifacts such as Software Bill of Materials (SBOM).

```

## Prerequisites

Before starting, ensure you have:

* Learned the basic signing and verification workflow following the [guide](https://notaryproject.dev/docs/quickstart-guides/) since Timestamping feature was added on top of existing signing and verification workflows.
* Installed Notation CLI v1.2.0. If not, follow the [installation guides](https://notaryproject.dev/docs/user-guides/installation/).
* Installed Notation plugins for signing with a KMS (Key Management System), such as AWS Signer or Azure Key Vault.
* A container image or artifact stored in an OCI-compliant registry.

> ## Sign artifacts in OCI-compliant registries with trusted timestamps

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Sign artifacts in OCI-compliant registries with timestamping

```

> To sign artifacts in OCI-compliant registries with trusted timestamps, you need to select a trusted TSA. There are public TSAs available, such as [DigitCert](https://www.digicert.com/) TSA and [Globalsign](https://www.globalsign.com/en) TSA. Since Notation CLI v1.2.0, two flags `--timestamp-url` and `--timestamp-root-cert` were introduced to the `notation sign` command for signing with trusted timestamps. Use the flag `--timestamp-url` to specify the URL of the TSA that you trusted. Use the flag `--timestamp-root-cert` to specify the filepath of downloaded root cert file for the trusted TSA. The root cert is used as the trust anchor to establish the chain of trust of TSA to protect you from MITM (Man-in-the-Middle) attacks. An example command:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To sign artifacts in OCI-compliant registries with timestamping, you need to select a trusted [RFC 3161](https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc3161) compliant TSA. There are public TSAs available, such as [DigitCert](https://www.digicert.com/) TSA and [Globalsign](https://www.globalsign.com/en). Since Notation CLI v1.2.0, two flags `--timestamp-url` and `--timestamp-root-cert` are introduced to the `notation sign` command for RFC 3161 timestamping. Use the flag `--timestamp-url` to specify the URL of the TSA. Use the flag `--timestamp-root-cert` to specify the filepath of downloaded root cert file of the trusted TSA. The root cert serves as the trust anchor to establish the chain of trust of the TSA. This is to protect you from MITM (Man-in-the-Middle) attacks. An example command:

```
